Design and Development of C Language Teaching System
                   Based on Vue

                              Xia Gaoa, Dongdong Zhangb, Xin Zhaoc*

School of information engineering, Shanghai Zhongqiao Vocational and Technical University,
                                      Shanghai, China

                        a493473225@qq.com, bzddqrs@163.com
                c*Corresponding                author: zhaoxin203@126.com

         Abstract. With the rapid construction of experimental computer rooms in uni-
         versities, more and more courses have entered the field of intelligence from tra-
         ditional classrooms. Compared with the improvement of hardware, how to use
         computer means to promote the quality of teaching in college education is the
         key research topic. In order to break the conventional office software teaching
         mode, this study is based on the programming course C language, through the
         design and development of a set of programming learning system, so as to im-
         prove the teaching efficiency of real-time grasp the students' learning progress,
         the introduction of a new teaching means to subdue the boring characteristics of
         traditional programming courses. The first point is to break the teaching limita-
         tions of programming courses through the introduction of the teaching system.
         Secondly, the main feature of the teaching system is the interaction between
         teachers and students. The 11 supporting cases integrate the basic knowledge
         units, and the effective combination of point to point. The development of the
         whole teaching system is divided into front-end and back-end. The front-end is
         mainly developed based on Vue framework, and then divided into teacher end
         and student end according to the function. The back-end is deployed and devel-
         oped through Spring Boot and Netty network framework, and finally uses Web-
         Socket protocol for communication. Finally, the real C language teaching scene
         was simulated for students to simulate training.

         Keywords: Vue framework; Spring Boot; C language.




1        Introduction

The development of programming course believes that C language teaching is a topic
that cannot be avoided. In Shanghai, for example, more than 95 percent of computer
majors have opened C language courses [1]. Every year, college students apply for the
Shanghai Application Technology Level examination of C language level two certifi-
cate of about 9000 people. According to the data of TIOBE programming community,
the share of C language is still as high as 12.08% in 2023, ranking second. Especially
© The Author(s) 2024
Y. Feng et al. (eds.), Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Internet, Education and Information
Technology (IEIT 2024), Atlantis Highlights in Social Sciences, Education and Humanities 26,
https://doi.org/10.2991/978-94-6463-574-4_33
          Design and Development of C Language Teaching System Based on Vue         281

in programming situations such as operating system and calling hardware, C language
is significantly better than other high-level languages, and most large system software
is also written in C language. The above data is enough to prove that C language is
still hot after many years on the top list, but for university teaching, the development
of the course has entered a bottleneck period. After many years of teaching reform,
there has been no major breakthrough. The reason is that the design of the course is
boring, and the teaching mode is monotonous, which cannot adapt to the needs of the
new generation of children, resulting in students unable to apply what they have
learned [2]. Although there are all kinds of new laboratory construction popularization,
but more just the improvement of traditional hardware parameters, there is no custom-
ized development for the course, so this subject will research and develop a set of
teaching system based on C language based on this demand, through the simulation of
C language teaching scene to help students directly exercise the application ability of
programming language [3].


2      Key Technologies

2.1    Vue
Vue is a JavaScript framework for building user interfaces. It was created by Evan
You in 2014 by taking some features of AngularJS and adopting the MVVM architec-
ture to make it a more lightweight framework. The whole framework is built based on
standard HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with a complete core library of graphics, the
composition of the progressive framework can help users develop front-end pages
more efficiently. This system chooses Vue2.0 as the development version, and node.js
is installed before installation. Because npm and other management tools have been
integrated into node.js, there is no need to install it repeatedly. Figure 1 shows the
Vue service startup interface. After starting, you can enter the local IP address and
port number for verification. The Vue framework mainly solves the functions of data
transmission and refresh in the whole front-end system, and feeds data back to the
front-end interface in real time to improve the operating efficiency of the system.
Especially in the teacher end interface, a large number of log information needs to be
called to help teachers grasp the programming situation of students in real time.
282       X. Gao et al.




                               Fig. 1. Starting the server



2.2    SpringBoot and Netty
For back-end development, a combination of SpringBoot and Netty was chosen, with
SpringBoot taking care of one-off network requests and the Netty networking frame-
work integrated into it for real-time data transfer via the socket service protocol.
SpringBoot is designed based on Spring4.0, which not only inherits the original ad-
vantages of the Spring framework, but also further simplifies the construction and
development of the whole link. Then the integration of Netty is equivalent to simpli-
fying the programming and development process of network applications. It can be
divided into three parts: automatic configuration, dependency management and con-
figuration management. The auto-configuration is mainly responsible for the various
parameters and Settings of Netty, and the dependency management solves the rela-
tionship conflict, which can be managed in the configuration file Gradle, and the con-
figuration management completes the parsing of the operation. Since Netty is an
event-driven network framework, as shown in Equation 1, E denotes the total number
of events, n denotes the number of events, and ei denotes the ith event.
                                           n
                                  E =  ei                                         (1)
                                          i =1

   MySQL is used as the back-end database management system, which is accessed
through MyBatis, a Java-based persistence layer framework that includes SQL Maps
and DAOs. In addition to supporting SQL queries, stored procedures and advanced
mappings, MyBatis removes the complexity of JDBC code and uses simple XML to
handle configuration and raw mapping, and finally maps interfaces and Java objects
into database records. MappedStatement is the core class, which is mainly used to
store all kinds of SQL configuration information.
   Data communication and synchronization is the biggest difficulty of the whole sys-
tem development, here the data communication is divided into two parts, one is the
          Design and Development of C Language Teaching System Based on Vue         283

front-end and back-end communication, mainly through the Http protocol and Web-
socket protocol to complete, the second is the C language program and back-end
analysis feedback, is completed through the socket. The back-end communication
between the teacher and the student is also based on socket to complete the transmis-
sion.

2.3    Tomcat Server
Since the system is designed by modular division, the front-end and back-end will be
installed and deployed on each computer. In this way, the coupling of the system
operation is reduced, and it is more secure and stable. For the convenience of later
maintenance, this side chooses to use the virtual machine to create image files, the
front-end program and the back-end program are installed and run in the Tomcat
server respectively, and the socket protocol is convenient to call and find the IP ad-
dress. Tomcat is a free open source Web server, belongs to lightweight application
server, suitable for some small and medium-sized project development, the design
architecture can be understood as two containers, respectively store the front-end and
back-end, to ensure that the operation is more stable, independent of each other.


3      Development and Research

3.1    System Functions
The system functions are divided into student end and teacher end, as shown in Figure
2, which is the login interface of students. Only students who have entered data in the
database can log in to this system for learning, and the student's account information
can also be synchronized in the teacher's end to facilitate the teacher's daily teaching
management.




                             Fig. 2. Student Login interface

   After successful login, you will enter the home page as shown in Figure 3, where
the system simulates a variety of training scenarios and hardware sensors, including
human body infrared sensor, LCD display, illumination sensor, temperature and hu-
284        X. Gao et al.

midity sensor, DC fan, red, yellow and green light, buzzer and expansion IO and other
resources. Students can use any C language editor to interact with them to control the
simulated sensors. At present, 11 kinds of teaching case scenarios have been created
according to the system functions, and the knowledge points of C language are com-
bined with them to really help students to synchronize with the classroom and practice
while learning. All the running results of the front-end will also be displayed through
the log management tool, so that students can understand their programming results at
a glance.




                                 Fig. 3. Student home page

   The interface style of the teacher side is similar to that of the student side, but user
management and screen display are added on this basis. After successful login on the
teacher side, you can select any student interface to display and master the current
running results of student programming. As shown in Figure 4, the teacher terminal
interface. When you click the log management tool, you will enter the log menu effect
interface, where you can view the student's experimental information and whether the
equipment in the simulation scene has been successfully debugged and run.




                                Fig. 4. Teacher home page
          Design and Development of C Language Teaching System Based on Vue         285

3.2    Case Study
At present, 11 teaching scene cases have been set up according to the teaching con-
tent, covering the knowledge points of input and output, sequential structure, selection
structure, loop structure, array, function, structure and pointer in C language. In the
future, it can also be expanded according to the content of the course. Let's share a
case scenario of choosing a structure. As shown in Figure 5, three smart room modes
are created and defined under the editor codeblocks, which are room temperature
mode, light mode and leave mode. When the user switches the mode, the switch
statement is used to judge the condition value, and the case clause under different
conditions will enter the corresponding code block. The SocketSend function is re-
sponsible for controlling the sending of instructions. In the room temperature mode,
when the temperature is greater than 25, the fan will be turned on. Such a smart home
teaching example not only exercises students' code example writing, but also intui-
tively debug the interface to make students' programming more vivid.




                            Fig. 5. Select structural statements



3.3    Data Synchronization Technology
The difficulty of the whole system lies in the data transmission and synchronization,
because the different objects and clients involved need to be handled separately [4].
The first is the communication between the front end and the back end of the student
side, using Http protocol and Websocket protocol to achieve and the C language cli-
ent call parsing is completed through the socket protocol. As shown in Figure 5, the
back end first opens a port for the front end to call, and first does a shunt analysis.
The http protocol is mainly responsible for the login and registration module, and the
Websocket protocol is responsible for the data of the front end. The Websocket data is
uniformly converted into json format, and then the data is pushed to the C language
286         X. Gao et al.

client. The reverse is the same, C language client through the socket protocol trans-
mission to the back-end, converted into json format and then pushed to the front end
for display, here all the parsing and judgment operations are completed in the
dealMsg function.
   Then the communication between the teacher and the student side, in the front C
language and back-end communication at the same time, the data is pushed to the
background of the teacher side, which is equivalent to a new socket thread to deal
with this section of transmission. The teacher end will first store the database after
receiving the data, and reserve the data source for the later display of the student in-
terface.


4       Comparison of Implementation Effects

The teaching effect of using case teaching has significant advantages compared to
traditional teaching methods. Case teaching simulates real-life scenarios and prob-
lems, enabling students to exercise their thinking and practical abilities while solving
problems. Students need to analyze the causes of problems, propose solutions, and
evaluate their feasibility. This process can cultivate their ability to analyze and solve
problems. However, traditional teaching methods often focus on imparting and mem-
orizing knowledge, while neglecting the cultivation of students' thinking and practical
abilities [5].
   Before implementing case teaching, the teaching order may be relatively single and
fixed, mainly based on teacher lectures, with students passively receiving knowledge.
However, after the introduction of case teaching, the teaching order has undergone
significant changes. Students begin to participate more actively in learning, and they
need to express their opinions in groups and collaborate with others to solve prob-
lems. This interaction and cooperation make the teaching order more active and inter-
esting. At the same time, teachers also need to pay more attention to guiding and
stimulating students' thinking and discussion, so that the teaching order is more in line
with the needs and development of students.
   Through case teaching comparison, students have strengthened their interest in
learning, improved their understanding and mastery of knowledge points, and im-
proved the quality of teaching. By comparing the teaching order before and after, the
situation is shown in Table 1.

        Table 1. Comparison of Implementation Effects of Case Teaching in Classroom

                             Before implemen-     After implemen-
                                                                       Comparison
                             tation               tation
        learning interest           45%                  70%               25%

      Case completion rate          40%                  75%               35%

      Mastery of knowledge
                                    65%                  80%               15%
             points
          Design and Development of C Language Teaching System Based on Vue               287

   The implementation of case teaching has significantly improved the quality of
teaching. Firstly, the increased interest in learning among students makes them more
willing to invest time and energy in learning, thereby improving learning outcomes.
Secondly, students have a deeper and more solid understanding and mastery of the
knowledge points, enabling them to better cope with various exams and practical
application scenarios. Finally, case teaching focuses on cultivating students' compre-
hensive qualities and innovative abilities, making them competitive and high-quality
talents. Therefore, more and more academic fields are adopting case teaching as an
important teaching method.


5      Summary

The C language teaching system mainly simulates the teaching hardware scene
through the front-end and back-end deployment, so that students can use the C lan-
guage to call it and improve their practical ability. At the same time, 11 case scenarios
are set up to help students deepen their understanding of language knowledge points.
Each scene is closely connected with the chapters of the C language course, step by
step, and the knowledge points are truly integrated with the teaching system to im-
prove the teaching efficiency. The difficulty of the whole teaching system is the syn-
chronization and transmission of data. First of all, each computer needs to be de-
ployed separately, and two containers are set up by Tomcat to store them respectively.
The system has a rigorous logical structure in the design, and all these should be re-
flected in the underlying code to achieve. The completed work is highly practical and
suitable for the daily teaching of contemporary college students. In the subsequent
development, more simulation equipment can be added to build a more perfect teach-
ing scene. At the same time, the management function is more subdivided and the
score statistics function is added.


References
 1. Fangqin Xu, Xia G. and Wanying F, "Research on the Application of Virtual Simulation
    Technology in the IoT programming class, " Proc. SPIE 12640, (2023).
 2. Shchemeleva Y B; Sokolov A A; Labazanova S H, "Development of hardware and a sys-
    tem for analyzing energy parameters based on simulation in SimInTech," Journal of Phys-
    ics: Conference Series 2176,(2022).
 3. Demidova L A; Mordakin B Yu, "Intelligent analysis of the list of technological operations
    for the problem of developing of functional simulators stowage and installation-mooring of
    the landing gear, " Journal of Physics: Conference Series 1902,1-13(2021).
 4. Umran Samir M.; Lu SongFeng; Abduljabbar Zaid Ameen; Nyangaresi Vincent Omollo,
    "Multi-chain blockchain based secure data-sharing framework for industrial IoTs smart
    devices in petroleum industry, " Internet of Things 24,(2023).
 5. Kelin Wang; Zhiyong L; Chengyi W;etc,” Research and Design of a Chicken Wing Test-
    ing and Weight Grading Device,” Electronics 13, 1-17(2024).
288         X. Gao et al.

Open Access This chapter is licensed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-
NonCommercial 4.0 International License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/),
which permits any noncommercial use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any
medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the
source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license and indicate if changes were made.
      The images or other third party material in this chapter are included in the chapter's
Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material
is not included in the chapter's Creative Commons license and your intended use is not
permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain
permission directly from the copyright holder.
